---
layout: post
title: "Unquestionable blue"
feature-img: /images/Poems/blue.jpg
excerpt-separator: <!--more-->
date: '2022-01-13'
prev: 2021-17-10-summerland
next: 2022-08-10-sunrise
---
We use such simple words  
to weave the tapestry of light  
into our language.  
Red. Yellow. Green. Blue. Black. White. 
  
But what is blue? Did Homer know?  
when sailing on a wine-dark sea?   
Why did he paint the sky with bronze  
and layer green with honey?  
  
The ancient brain is not the new;  
when, with modern eyes, I view  
the ocean and the midday sky  
they look, unquestionably, blue.  
  
With other simple words, we paint  
the colors that we feel.  
Sadness, joy, fear, hate, love: all these signs reveal  
 
some inner state. But what is love?  
How can we call that one emotion  
longing, ecstasy, respect,  
infatuation, and devotion?  
  
I grasp with these imperfect pigments,  
try to catch the palette of  
experience — and fail.  
What tint can be, unquestionably, love?  
  
My blue is not a simple sine,  
nor is my love Euclidean:  
no matter how I flatten it,  
my love’s oblique meridian  
  
will not lie on a paper map,  
nor nanometers ever be  
Pacific waves, a robin’s egg,  
or what a person meant to me.  
  
Just as the different shades of blue  
have secondary colors there,  
so love can be tinged green with lust  
or dyed in indigo despair  
  
and still be love. Love’s many things,  
and though its boundaries aren’t defined  
its subtle thread is intricately  
laced throughout the tender mind,  
  
intertwining feelings that,  
at first, might seem quite different  
within a tapestry of sense  
that weaves around love’s referent.  
  
In that tapestry, love cries  
while flying on blue swallow’s wings;  
it flowers pink in fruiting trees  
and runs with umber wild things.  
  
You’re in it, too, in faded fields  
of tangled thread, a knotted part  
(the untrained work of younger hands)  
whose weft still binds my heart.  
  
Our love may not have been for years,  
been made, at best, imperfectly,  
even at our hyperbolic  
orbits' heated perigee,  
  
and cast us both on fast and far  
trajectories to where we are:  
you, caught by the gravity  
of some bright northern star,  
  
and me, to where I settled, bound  
with two firm feet on loving ground.  
But, sometimes — when I look on high —  
I see your color in the sky.  
 

