---
layout: post
title: "What does it mean to be a Venus-ascendant?"
feature-img: /images/Astro/venus.jpg
excerpt-separator: <!--more-->
date: '2022-03-05'
prev: 2022-03-05-venus
next: 2022-05-06-rising
---
Disclaimer: Take this with a grain of salt. Based on my personal observation/experience and would in **no way** apply to all people with these aspects.

**when you have the venus-ascendant aspect in your birth chart, you have a significant sense of beauty, art, creativity, pleasure, tranquility, relationships and connections, and materials; and you approach and view life being aware of this sense. however, the aspect that these bodies are making to each other will determine how this aspect personally comes into play.**

**🌷 ; Venus conjunct ascendant ⋆ ˚｡⋆୨୧˚**

These individuals are highly aware of how they can fabricate beauty, pleasure, art, tranquility, materials, relationships and connections, and creativity into their life through their appearance, personality, and how they approach others as this is something they desire and prioritize. They tend to have great self-image. They are usually comfortable with their beauty and know what fits them physically, emotionally, romantically, and personally. They embody the entirety of venus and what it stands for.

Furthermore, they are seen as rather graceful, pleasing, charming, and attractive individuals. A common observation is that they are usually conventionally attractive, or at least physically attractive in their own way enough to where others think they are too—Venus in the 12h conjunct the ascendants tend to have “exotic” beauty (ex: Rihanna) while Venus in the 1h conjunct the ascendants tend to have conventional “in your face” beauty (ex: Angelina Jolie)—These are the types of people who love to wear makeup, wear different types of hairstyles, and have an eye of fashion; they could also be the type of people who always likes to "doll themselves up", this goes for both sexes. 

These individuals do have the upper hand in attractiveness and all of the good things when it comes to how they present themselves and how others view them, but it is important that they do not become superficial or caught up in the physical/material world. They could just as easily lose themselves in how others view them and become people pleasers. It is important to not lose the ability to stand up for themselves and hold firm values. There is also a tendency to being overindulgent or lazy, despite your fetching demeanor that attracts nothing but lavish, you still have to work for the things you want. Your attractiveness can only help you manifest the opportunities to work for the things you want.

-----

**🌸 ; Venus trine ascendant ⋆ ˚｡⋆୨୧˚**

Trined individuals prioritize beauty, art, love, money, relationships just as much the conjunction. However, they know how to equally and properly integrate it into their lives without overdoing it, making them fairly beautiful and delicate people. Their self-image is normal, they have days when they feel amazing, days when they feel decent, and days when they feel not so good. However, due to their ability to achieve balance, they always find a way through it all.

It is noticeable that these individuals appear to have a balanced sense of self-worth, self-image, and self-love, unless other aspects says otherwise. They tend to be modest yet aware of what they have to offer physically and personally. More than often tend to be sincere, social, and kind individuals. They usually know how to incorporate different types of accessories and styles into their very own, and make it look amazing on themselves. They always seem to know what fits exactly for them, they also tend to go for an exact aesthetic or makeup look. Depending on what type of trine it is can determine what type of style or aesthetic this person might have (for ex: earth trine can indicate a homely, planty, and comfortable style; fire trine can indicate a passionate and grandeur style; water trine can indicate a cutesy and pastel style; air trine can indicate a flowy and versatile style) Their beauty tends to be well-balanced and easily to look at.

Usually, these individuals tend to have great dynamics in their personal relationships, whether that be with their friends, partners or associates. They get along very well with others, and they appear very comfortable with the connections they have. They are so friendly and kind, even to the point where others are naturally comfortable with them. The type to be sweet enough to help someone with directions. I’ve also noticed these individuals, even if they are introverts, love socializing to some degree. They might love going to social gatherings once in a while just for the love of being around others. They might even be talented in the arts, fashion, beauty, money, makeup, and much more since the trine is the aspect of talent.

However, these individuals could have the tendency to forget who they are. There’s times where they dive into a wave of insecurity or superficiality. It is in their hands to make they constantly take care of themselves so they don’t let themselves go down that road, and remind themselves that they are much more than what others see on the outside. I’ve seen that celebrities with this aspect could lean towards plastic surgery if they are willing to. Even if they do go down that route, it is important they make sure their features are still balanced after the surgery because this is what this aspects calls for.

-----

**🧚🏽‍♀️ ; Venus sextile ascendant ⋆ ˚｡⋆୨୧˚**

Sextiles value and desire to manifest love, art, beauty and relationships in their life, and they have the power to embody and embrace these particular traits as they have the talent to do so. They tend to have good self-image and self-acceptance, and they most likely certainly believe they are loved and accepted by others. They often attract opportunities where they can activate or put this talent of charm, art, and beauty to good use. 

Persons with this aspect are charming, sociable, and confident individuals who tend to be extremely lucky when it comes to being well-received by others and basking in privileges. They are often enterprising people who know how to build connections and network with others for the sake of their career and legacy, therefore making them very popular. They tend to have an extravagant style in which they stand out and catch the attention of others effectively. They may enjoy the arts, fashion and makeup, and there could be opportunities in which they can develop and use those passions to use. 

These individuals tend to have electrifying dynamics with the people in their life, whether that be with partners, family, friends or business partners. Therefore, they receive a bunch of help and support from their loved ones a lot. It is more than likely this person will always have someone to lean onto. It is possible that these folks can be someone who could be extremely hardworking, and has a drive to work towards comfort and luxury in life (such as nice clothes, furniture, and much more). They also know to solve disputes and encourage peace. These individuals could also have a huge reputation and love to party or go to extremely socialized events.

Nonetheless, these individuals might need to know how to control these traits, as in how to turn them “on” or “off”. These traits are not exactly naturally apart them like the trine, but they have the potential to activate or operate these traits properly. These individuals need to put active work into making sure these traits are used and used to the best. It is also the case that sextiles should avoid trying to appear how they think others want to see them, they have to embody this aspect to its utmost and primal form, and use this aspect to attract good circumstances (sextile is the aspect of “opportunities”)

-----

**🍥 ; venus square ascendant ⋆ ˚｡⋆୨୧˚**

This makes someone who strongly prioritizes beauty, art, money, relationships, and other pleasures. However, there tends to be a distorted perception around it, which heavily sways how they implement these themes into their life. 

These individuals tend to love a significant type of beauty and certain traits that usually correlates to the sign that occupies Venus in their chart. Even so, their idea of beauty and attractiveness might not correspond with how they naturally appear and come off, which is the sign of their ascendant. This might cause insecurity, low self-esteem or bad self/body-image. This backs up the observation that people with this aspect tend to not know what suits them when it comes to their type of romantic partners, style and even friends, or they refuse to accept what does. They often don't feel comfortable with their natural beauty which derives from their ascendant and often desires the beauty of the sign of their Venus. This can make the native fall into great denial. On the other hand, these individuals could feel hatred towards any Venusian-related themes and completely turn a blind eye to them as they believe it is all completely superficial.

Natives with this aspect are typically well-liked, and others flock to them due to their irresistible charm. They are usually the type of people who others do not have any hatred for because they tend to have great courtesy and respectfulness. It can almost make people idolize them, or obsessed with them. There is a common assumption that this aspect gives you sultry, intense beauty, which Venus conjunct Ascendant gives you soft, precious, doll-like beauty. These individuals tend to have a beauty or physical attributes that is not typical for society or people to be attracted to, but either way, these individuals continue to captivate. Others tend to believe that this person is 'picture-perfect' in a way, whatever the house their Venus is in is where they are seen to be perfect, therefore making them extremity gravitating—or where they desire to be perfect (Because it is what the house can show [where] they consider to be attractive) When you are close to a Venus square Ascendant native, you'll find that they are extremely precise on how they look and come off, they are almost perfectionists; they are the types to make sure that every imperfection and improper detail is groomed because they value looking and acting "easy on the eyes". Usually, these natives appear as though they are self-loving and sure of themselves, and this is especially the case if their Venus or ascendant is in a fire or earth sign.

Venus square ascendant is particularly the aspect that gives insecurity, low self-esteem, or body/self-image issues. Natives with this aspect could feel immense pressure to fit into a specific bubble in regards to how they present themselves and their personality; a manifestation is feeling as though they need to size into societal expectations such as beauty standards. This can eventually push the native to act and look a certain way that is different from their authentic selves. They might strongly prioritize Venusian things like looks, money, fashion, popularity, and even relationships to a detriment. They might even have the tendency of coming off as inconsiderate (for ex: Kim Kardashian has a harsh reputation for her figure and physical appearance being harmful to women's body image, and with her Venus in the 9th house, it shows that she makes profit and thrives off of black culture and their features) It is important that these individuals make sure that they do not become spoiled as they can easily find themselves being ungrateful for the things they already have in life, such as being ungrateful for their natural charm that can easily allow them to make friends, or their decent financial/living situation. This could even make them ‘tone-deaf’ or apathetic. These natives could seem like they strive for perfection, which can cause them to become huge perfectionists, especially when it comes to their looks. A common observation is that they have considered "going under the knife". (ex: Kim Kardashian is widely known for getting plastic surgery and becoming the literal beauty standard) Due to their desire to appear likable to others, there is a caution to appearing as a people pleaser and not respecting your boundaries doing so. Remember that it is okay to be ‘unfiltered’, real, and honest. There is no need to appear proper and perfect all the time, you’re human. On the other hand, other natives tend to lack in the social department and struggle to manage proper etiquette and social skills. They might not like hugs or socializing at all, which can make them appear spiteful, rude, or antisocial. And this is only because they are uncomfortable doing this as they struggle to feel comfortable in themselves as a person. 