---
layout: post
title: "How to use astrology in a way that will actually help you?"
feature-img: /images/Astro/astro-use.jpg
excerpt-separator: <!--more-->
date: '2022-09-07'
prev: 2022-07-08-solar
next: 2022-10-21-astro-obs-1
---
**This is how I use astrology for myself without letting it overwhelm me, so it's just my opinion. First thing: When you're looking at your placements, don't take them too seriously. Remember that these are energies and you have the power to manifest them. Very often, we unknowingly manifest these energies but we can do that consciously too. So, remember to do this:** 

🌸 When you read about a positive aspect or placement of yours, and you like being that way, focus on how true it is, even if you feel it may not be true. This focus on what you already have and what you already are, this is what we call as focusing on the abundance (instead of the lack of something), is going to get it manifested.

🌸 When you read something negative/neutral about your placements or aspects, learn about it, think about how it may manifest in your life and consciously try to get out of that situation or consciously try not to be that person. Let me give you an example:

🌸 I have a few placements which say that I may turn passive agrresive or that despite my wish to lead, I may let go of control over myself, so I remember this everytime and try my best to not do so.

🌸 You don't have to actually understand all your placements or experience them right now, it'll take time and few more experiences, but you'll be okay. You'll learn how to deal with them. 

🌸 Lilith in 8th house may be able to find strength and power in thier sexuality. The more they learn about it, explore it without going all the way at once, they'd find themselves to be genuinely empowered through it.

🌸 Scholars of Vedic India believed astrology to be one of the core studies one need to master to be a learnt scholar. For them, astrology and astronomy were mutually inclusive, if not the same. Many astronomers from ancient India have described a lot of astronomical phenomenons.

🌸 There are two types of planets: Superior or Inferior. Superior planets are those which have orbits larger than that of the Earth, they're farther from the Sun, hence are slower. These planets are more enduring than the Inferior ones, which have orbits shorter than The Earth, namely Venus and Mercury. And superior planets are Mars, Jupitar, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto.

🌸 From my observation, people with Sun conjunct Venus have softer nose, while people with Sun conjunct Mars have sharper nose.

🌸 Most Sun conjunct Mars women have a very noticeable and attractive jawline.

🌸 People with Sun conjunct Jupitar have a golden and brown glow about them. 