---
layout: post
title: "Random Astro Observation - Part 2"
feature-img: /images/Astro/astro-obs-2.jpg
excerpt-separator: <!--more-->
date: '2022-11-18'
prev: 2022-10-21-astro-obs-1
next: 2022-11-18-astro-obs-2
---
**i'm absolutely not an astrologer. these are just a culmination of some observations, thoughts, theories, and personal experience. above all this is just for fun.  lastly, these may or may not apply to you but you might find something to be true about your friends, family, or lover. enjoy!** 

❤︎ creating aesthetically pleasing things comes easy for libras. they can create a “look” with ease/without really trying. sometimes they do it without even realizing it at first. ex: outfits, mood boards, makeup looks, home/room decor, their blog, etc. they might be known for copying people at times but know for certain people copy them and are inspired by them too.

❤︎ any mercury dominants or people with mercury as your chart ruler notice they sometimes rhyme while casually speaking and they do it with out trying like it just happens naturally? or maybe you find yourself speaking poetically without trying? there’s just something cool or pretty you do when speaking.

❤︎ scorpio/aries in the 3rd house: how many times do you honk the horn when driving? cursing at other drivers? lol the road rage can be bad & you might wish you had the right to stop another driver & give them a ticket for their poor/slow driving. wanting them to pay for it in some way. you may also feel the same way towards people who walk slow. for example, you’re in school trying to get to class but the people in front of you are walking slow or just in the way.

❤︎ if your chart ruler isn’t one of your dominant planets/signs it might feel like one and it may even feel more dominant than your actual dominant planets/signs. for example, you might be venus, jupiter, and moon dominant, but then your chart ruler is in pluto. you might feel the effects of pluto more than your dominant planets. the planet and themes associated with your chart ruler (pluto in this example) may have a greater focus in your life and a greater effect on you. so check your chart ruler if you feel like you might not relate to some of your dominant planets/signs as much.

❤︎ i’m sorry but aquarius stelliums/prominent aquarius (especially if it includes aquarius mercury) need to get off the phone. you guys can talkkkkkkkk. lmao how many people do you speak to on the phone per day? your phone is always ringing. you might repeat yourself or rant a lot.

❤︎ you may have the tendency of looking at or focusing on the body part associated with your chart ruler or dominant planets. below are some examples:

**mercury (gemini)/hands**: always looking at your hands, maintaining the appearance of your hands (keeping them clean, manicures, jewelry like rings/bracelets, etc.), having or wanting to have nice handwriting.

**saturn (capricorn)/teeth**: always looking at your teeth, brushing them often, carrying floss with you for when you dine out, wanting them extra clean and white, deciding to get braces or dental work if needed or to make them look better/correct something minor. 

**neptune (pisces)/feet**: always looking at your feet, maintaining the appearance of your feet (keeping them clean, pedicures, jewelry like anklets/toe rings, etc.), having a collection of pretty shoes or shoes that are made of good quality, having a nice walk, perhaps a good catwalk (runway).

**mercury (virgo)/stomach area**: always looking at your stomach, wanting a small waist/flat stomach/abs, focusing on this area when exercising, waist training, focusing on digestive health.

**sun (leo)/back & hair**: always looking at your back/hair, might have a big back or a sexy one, looking good in backless dresses, always touching your hair, styling your hair often. voluminous, thick hair. if your hair doesn’t look good you feel ugly or like you’re not looking your best.

**mars (aries)/head & face**: always looking at your head/face, might focus on the eye area the most when doing your makeup or get complimented your eyes a lot, you might not like your head shape and try to hide it with hats and stuff or you feel like you have a nice head shape/face that suits any hairstyle.

if your chart ruler or dominant planets are in **retrograde** or heavily afflicted it can make you feel insecure about those body parts and you may have issues with them. like with neptune/pisces you can have foot pain or ingrown toenails and your shoes might rip or get ruined often.

❤︎ venus 6th: you really worry about the health of your loved ones. if it’s cold out you’re quick to tell them to put warm clothes on, reminding them to grab their gloves and scarf. if they’re sick, it makes you unhappy. you wish you could heal them. you’ll do what you can to help them feel better. looking up remedies, making tea, soup, praying for them, giving them recommendations (try this, try that). trying to think of what could have made them sick. you could be overbearing in this area although you mean well. if your loved ones ignore your advice and efforts to help it can make you a bit annoyed and feel rejected.

❤︎ 1° moon/mars or aries moon/mars: wanting to throw things or hit something/someone when really upset. (I don't condone this though)

❤︎ having a heavily afflicted mars, mars in retrograde, detriment, or fall: finding it hard to get things done. can be passive, lazy, a procrastinator. there’s always an obstacle. relying on others/lack of independence. always asking someone for help or to do something for you. you may feel incompetent. a lack of motivation.

the house it’s in can show what kind of people or things you depend on and where you feel like you’re lacking power/control.

❤︎ pisces: they have a vivid imagination. frequent dreamers. can rely on escapism. day dreams for fun too, reality is boring. considering all this, they might wonder if something really happened or if it was just a dream. experiencing deja vu. could also have existential crises often. being a source of inspiration to others, a muse. but also finding inspiration with ease, even in the little things. put this in the 9th house and they might be extra intuitive.

❤︎ taurus mars: might like to dance as a form of exercise.