---
layout: post
title: "Solar Return Observations"
feature-img: /images/Astro/solar.jpg
excerpt-separator: <!--more-->
date: '2022-07-08'
prev: 2022-05-06-rising
next: 2022-09-07-astro-use
---
Disclaimer: These observations are based on my own experiences. Take this with a grain of salt. 

**Neptune in the 10th House**: Feelings of confusion arise in regards to the general direction your life is taking. It is hard to set goals and stick to them. For me, the future seemed so undefined that it became stressful. Idealism is getting in the way of setting up proper plans. It is best to just sit back and watch things unfold during this time. 

**North Node in the 12th House**: I found myself isolated. My spiritual understanding grew immensely. I turned to meditation and nature walks. I became comfortable with being alone. 

**Pluto in the 8th House**: All the dark and hidden aspects about yourself are going through massive changes. You redefine your understandings on intimacy and trauma. This is a painful process that is usually started through loss and rejection. 

**Chiron Trine Pluto**: This is the start of a healing journey. It seemed like every day I was reminded of the trauma I’ve experienced. I couldn’t escape the pain I had been running from for so long. I had to face these wounds in order to heal them properly.

**Capricorn Ascendent**: You might go through this year feeling as if you are constantly being punished. I spent more time at work than anywhere else. 

**Venus Square North Node** Massive breakups and heartbreak. People who no longer serve you will be cut off, even if you don’t want that. 

**Mars in the 11th House** - Tensions begin to rise amongst friends. Expect arguments or even the feeling of competition. 

**Mercury Square Saturn** - I didn’t know how to use my voice. I found myself saying “I don't know how to talk to people anymore.” I had always been a rather talkative person, but under this influence I was silent. I felt like I had nothing to say or offer. Every social interaction seemed so awkward and I felt terribly misunderstood. 

**Saturn in the 7th House** - If you ask someone out, you might get rejected. Either way, there are some tough lessons to be learned in regards to relationships. 

**Moon in the 4th House** - This is all about finding your home. If Mercury is also in the fourth, it calls for a significant move or change in residence. 

**Mars in the 12th House** - Seriously watch out for hidden enemies! There are people who are secretly angry with you. 

**Venus in the 1st House** - This influence is so much fun! This was the first time in my life in which I could look in the mirror and call myself beautiful. My confidence skyrocketed, I started to wear all the things I had always wanted to wear. My style became defined and I was literally playing dress up every day. I engaged in a lot of social activities during that year, and ate a lot of great food! 

**Mars in the 4th House** - Feeling argumentative and restless around your family and home. 

**North Node Trine Neptune** - Divine intervention, stepping into what's aligned for you. I felt like I had found my mission. 

**Mercury in the 3rd House** - During this time, I would recommend taking up walking rather than driving everywhere. Suddenly the neighborhood you live in is going to become the most interesting thing, there is a lot to discover within the surrounding area. 